don't try to go viral post covid what
you're going to see is a lot of people
continuing with
online commerce which is going to
increase the demand for digital
marketing but it's also going to
increase how competitive digital
marketing is as well focus on what
you're actually better at because that's
what you'll enjoy and just double down
and be the best person at that one thing
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
with the pandemic there's been a big
boom on anything internet based it's
convenient you can get it delivered to
you don't have to worry about covid and
what you'll end up seeing in the future
as well is because people are starting
to order off of amazon people who have
never ordered before like my parents or
people who are older ordered online
sites now right like they're ordering
from e-commerce sites they're getting
used to it they're seeing how it
actually can be cheaper and more
convenient than even going to the store
so post covid what you're going to see
is a lot of people continuing with
online commerce which is going to
increase the demand for digital
marketing but it's also going to
increase how competitive digital
marketing is as well which means
you're going to have to
spend more money spend more time more
resources to get the same results that
you were getting before on the topic of
digital marketing trends we also wanted
to cover is there such a thing as
content situation the answer might
surprise you when we look at content
marketing the stats are pretty basic in
which there's over a billion blogs
and there's roughly seven billion people
in this world so you have roughly one
blog for every seven people that's a lot
of content
and then you have tick tock you have
linkedin you have clubhouse you have
instagram the number of social platforms
out there has continually been
increasing people are now repurposing
content continuing trying to build an
audience there's so much noise in the
marketplace that it's harder to stand
out no matter what you're doing you can
jump over lamborghinis and if you're
jumping over lamborghinis and it used to
go viral on youtube everyone's jumping
over lamborghinis right now and this
doesn't go that viral anymore the point
i'm trying to make is there's a lot of
content and there'll continually be more
content and even though people are
producing content mass scale i
personally don't see it actually
decreasing over time what i do see is
people struggling to stand out
so you're gonna see more noise and even
if more content is being produced you're
not going to see as much content stand
out or you're not going to notice much
just like you know how you have banner
blindness you see banner ads so often
you tend to ignore them
you'll start doing similar things with
content and there's a lot of tools that
are coming up which ai is helping you
create content actually becoming easier
to create it there's tools like canva
that help you create the visual images
even quicker so it's just going to cause
more people to create even more content
but again i believe people are going to
have quote unquote content blindness
similar to banner blindness in which
they're going to ignore most the content
and because we began the topic of
content marketing i had to ask what
would his predictions for some content
marketing trends be there's two big ones
so one is lives like this think about
doing a podcast interview but on
facebook and you can use the streaming
platforms to go live on facebook
linkedin youtube instagram
and you can do an interview everywhere
at the same time which can help you grow
quicker the second content format that
i'm experimenting with is reels
okay so everyone has a different version
of real shorts there's tick tock right
yeah it's been a very per platform but
the content is pretty much the same if
you create these quote-unquote reels
what ends up happening is the people who
see that content can be more than just
your followers so it's another easy way
to grow actually pinterest recently
wants their story pins not sure if you
have heard about them but they are
basically the same kind of format such
as rios but they enable you to create
story pins which are up to 20 pages long
so you can combine your views and
they're super super powerful for organic
rich as well so anyone looking to
repurpose their tick tocks their rails
their youtube chores pinterest
storytellings are definitely a viable
option as well and it's funny not too
many people talk about pinterest
pinterest is one of the best sites if
you're an e-commerce and you're trying
to generate sales but because content
marketing is only one portion of digital
marketing i also wanted to ask you how
can a beginner digital marketing learn
it effectively here is his best advice
the easiest way to learn digital
marketing is just go and do it create
your own website go start a wordpress
website you can do it for free at
wordpress.com or you can buy your own
domain name and you know pop up like a
site on dreamhost and
crank something out and just try to
learn them market your own site go read
sites whether it's you know mine
neilpatel.com or someone else's that's
fine and just go and try to market your
own site and get traffic the best way of
learning is just doing it yourself it's
just not you can read all you want but
if you
don't actually implement it's not going
to take you that far after you've gained
knowledge in digital marketing as a
whole you'd also want to gain knowledge
in one specific industry here's how to
pick your niche according to neil patel
figure out what you have more natural
skills and start with that and just
focus people used to tell you that you
can do everything can't do everything i
can't be a doctor i'm not good at it i
don't have the stomach to see the
insides of someone or their blood like
that's just not me focus on what you're
actually better at because that's what
you'll enjoy and just double down and be
the best person at that one thing and
wrap up the topic of digital marketing i
also wanted to learn what are some of
the best resources that new patel
utilizes himself here is his list
i read a lot of blogs more than books
because they tend to be more up to date
and then i do a ton of experimentation
straight to the point answer do you have
any book suggestions for our audience i
keep up with search engine lens search
engine journal uh moz backlinko yeah
those are the main blogs that i'm
keeping up to date with and then the
other thing i do is track all your
competitors and see what they're doing
and see what kind of content they're
pushing out
and it'll give you ideas the other thing
to do is continue to look out for your
competitions on podcast interviews a lot
of times they spill their beans on how
they're growing or what tactics they're
doing and listen to that because they'll
give you ideas as well after we have
discussed digital marketing casa ho as
well as the futuristic marketing i
wanted to learn what is new patel's
social media strategy here's what he
shared with us i have this formula
that's been working really well in which
40 percent of the time i create beginner
content beginner content being like how
to tie a tie how to install a toilet
stuff like that i know that's extremely
beginner but that's the stuff that
people are searching for but it doesn't
create tons of social shares and it
doesn't create tons of backlinks 10 of
the time i'm creating advanced content
content with stats data that shows me as
an expert stuff that'll get a lot of
social shares backlinks but doesn't
generate that many links then 20 of the
time i'm focusing on rewriting older
articles i go into google search
comments i see the older articles and i
compare from i take my last 30 days
compared to the previous 30 days of the
last year so i'm comparing my last 30
days to the last year during the same
time period in essence and i'm seeing
which content generated more traffic
back then than it does now and i look at
that content pieces and i see my
competitors ones and i rewrite mine and
try to make it way better than theirs so
that way i can get more traffic to my
older articles and i do that 20 time and
30 time which gets me to 100
i go and i promote my content hitting up
people on social media asking them to
share my content offering to share their
content emailing people i link out to
asking them to share my content but like
processes like that just really helped
get more traffic and because i know that
a lot of the audience of new patel as
well as my audience is from the younger
generation i had to ask him what would
the best advice for his younger self be
i'll tell him to focus
when i was 20 years old at 80d i tried
doing way too many things i should have
just focused
and if i stuck with marketing and i
stuck with just practicing and helping
them with their marketing versus trying
to do too many companies i would have
had one company that was much bigger
much larger doing much better but i
didn't do that i had 80d i would you
know people tell me about a really cool
idea like hey we should end up creating
invisalign through 3d printers or we
should do some random stuff and be like
ah cool let me give you some money or
let me try that i should have just
focused my energy in my efforts and
there is actually a great quote from my
native language
it says from two chairs on the ground
basically if you try to multitask if you
try too many things your focus is going
to be diverted and you are going to be
ending up with nothing this is something
which a lot of people especially in the
social media marketing world should not
take for granted yes you can repurpose
content yes you can be on multiple
places at the same time and grow
simultaneously but unless you have those
processes set in place you're going to
struggle with multiple social media
platforms i couldn't also miss the
chance to ask him what would his best
advice to social media marketing experts
be this is what new patep had to say
don't try to go viral
you know the other day i was talking to
a friend and he's like how many video
views you have and i'm like i have 37
million video views and i did it without
going viral and i was like it's just
consistency you keep creating content
you keep pushing it out there on the
social platforms you'll keep doing well
and people are gunning for that let me
just create that one hit wonder and get
lucky and i'm like that's not in your
control but what is in your control is
consistency hard work and just doing it
for a very very long time